# Abstract
STAU2 is a double-stranded RNA-binding protein enriched in the nervous system that delivers target transcripts into specific subcellular locations. During mouse cerebral cortical asymmetric progenitor divisions, STAU2 preferentially distributes into the intermediate progenitor cell (IPC) daughter. Corticogenesis occurs on a precise time-schedule, raising the hypothesis that STAU2 cargo would change as IPCs become specified to produce first neurons and then glia. Here we combine RNA-immunoprecipitation with sequencing (RIP-seq) over four stages of mouse cortical development to generate a comprehensive cargo profile for STAU2. A subset of transcripts was present at all stages, involved in metabolism, macromolecule localization, transcription, and cell cycle processes. Another subset was dynamic, changing with cortical stage, involved in neurogenesis, axon guidance, neurite outgrowth, and included cortical layer markers. Notably, the dynamic STAU2 cargo included determinants of progenitor versus neuronal fates and genes contributing to abnormal corticogenesis. One STAU2 target, Taf13, has been linked to microcephaly and impaired myelination, and knockdown in vitro reduced oligodendrogenesis. Our observations indicate that STAU2 contributes to cortical development by binding and delivering complex, temporally regulated RNA subsets into IPCs.
# Stau2 project
Repository contains code for the analysis of STAU2 Rip-Seq data. Data was mapped with STARmapper to UCSC mm10 genome, 
then peaks were identiifed with Homer, and differential peak expression was determined with Homer. Using R a genes with altered binding over the time-course were identified.
